---
layout: post
title: Reviews
excerpt: What is the impact of <span class="emphasis">the business reviews</span>?
small_excerpt: the business reviews?
---

Can the reviews posted on online services allow us to discover whether a business has failed or passed the inspections in Chicago? In this section, we are going to analyse whether there is a relationship between the review rates on Google Local (Google Maps) and their corresponding inspections.

We have merged the Health Inspection dataset with Google's Local dataset, extracted from the  <a href="http://cseweb.ucsd.edu/~jmcauley/datasets.html">Recommender Systems Dataset</a> by Julian McAuley, professor at the University of California, San Diego. After filtering the data, obtaining only the reviews businesses in Chicago and merging them with our dataset, we obtain around 1600 unique businesses for which we have reviews. 

We then try to find relationships between the businesses average review rate and their probability of passing an inspection (calculated from the Health Inspection Dataset), as well as the number of reviews. 

To analyse the possible relationships, we study several correlations. All of them yield irrelevant results between the variables considered. The following table shows the highest correlation (Spearman) obtained:

<iframe src="{{ site.baseurl }}/images/spearmanCorr.html" style="width: 100%; height: 350px; frameborder='0'"></iframe>

In addition, we also inspect the variables visually. As expected, the variables do not seem to have a significant correlation. The following plot proves this point. 

<iframe src="{{ site.baseurl }}/images/dataStory_GoogleReviews.html" style="width: 100%; height: 500px;"></iframe>

<p>We conclude that no connection can be found between Google Local reviews and the posibility of passing or failing an inspection. Both visual inspection and numeric values have failed to give us any insight about this relationship. </p>

<p>Additionally, we can say that the number of ratings of a business on Google does not seem to be correlated with its number of failed/passed inspections either. Does this mean that users do not really care about the health conditions of a business when reviewing it? Or does this merely indicate that they do not have the chance to go behind the scene and to discover what the true sanitary conditions of the business is. </p>

<p>In this analysis, we do need to highlight that the number of overlapping businesses between the Google dataset and the Health Inspection dataset is small (~1600), with a heavy-tailed distribution on the number of reviews. Therefore, we deduce that a dataset of reviews with more up-to-date comments and ratings allied with a larger number of businesses in both datasets could yield different results. </p>