---
layout: post
title: Size
excerpt: What is the impact of <span class="emphasis">the business size</span>?
small_excerpt: the business size?
---

When deciding which restaurant to go to, a good point to make the decision can be whether we know it or not, especially if we are abroad. And brands play a big role here. How different is eating in the multinational kind of restaurants from eating in independent restaurants? Let's dig in.

First of  all, we need to know which are the top chain businesses in our dataset of inspections in Chicago, by number of establishments. The following table shows the number of different establishments of the top chains in our dataset of Chicago. If the inspection are sampling businesses uniformly from all over Chicago, this can give us a good picture of Chicago's chain business scene.

<iframe src="{{ site.baseurl }}/images/tableTopChains.html" style="width: 100%; height: 430px; frameborder='0'"></iframe>

From the table we can derive that Subway is the company with biggest number establishments in Chicago, followed by 7eleven and Starbucks. 
<!-- Which of these chains is your favorite?  -->

<h3> McDonald's vs Burger King </h3>

Let's take on the battlefield of hamburgers. The 2 best-known chains in this industry are: McDonald's and Burger King. Everyone has their preference when coming to them. But what happens when we analyze them from the point of view of their cleanliness conditions? A lot of times it is claimed that these businesses are not the best with regard to keeping their establishments correctly sanitized. Will there be a different between the two?

<iframe src="{{ site.baseurl }}/images/MC_vs_BG.html" style="width: 100%; height: 500px; frameborder='0'"></iframe>

The plot above shows the rate of Pass/Pass with Conditions/Fail inspections for all the restaurants in Chicago that belong to these 2 chains. In the plot we observe the level of cleanliness for McDonald's and Burger is very similar. There is no siginificant difference between them. They both have the same percentage of failed inspections, while McDonald's has a 7% more of passed inspections, exactly the increased percentage of "Pass with Conditions" inspections that Burger King has over McDonald's. In general terms we can say they are vey similar.

Thus, we can say that in Chicago there is not a big difference between going to McDonald's or Burger King when considering their level of cleanliness.

<h3> Top Chains Inspections rates</h3>

We can do a similar analysis of the cleaning conditions of our previously computed top-10 chains in Chicago which are also familiar to many of us around the world. Here, we will check the percentage of "Passed" and "Failed" inspections for the top 10 chains in Chicago.

<iframe src="{{ site.baseurl }}/images/allTopChains.html" style="width: 100%; height: 500px; frameborder='0'"></iframe>

In the plot above, we show the percentage of failed and passed inspections for the top chains in Chicago. The plot is sorted by number of failed inspections. We observe that "Citgo" and "Family Dollar", gas station shops and a variety store chain respectively have the largest amount of of failed inspections. In fact, the number "Fail" + "Pass w/ Conditiions" is alarmingly close to 50% of their inspected stores.

<h3> Independet businesses vs Chains</h3>

When we are in a new city, we need to make the decision whether to go into the unexplored wildenesses of eating in a new restaurant that we do not know or to visit a chain restaurant that is familiar to us. One could wonder if there is a big difference of inspections passing rate between the independent businesses and big chains. 

Let's look at the difference passing inspection rates between independent businesses and chain businesses in Chicago. For this analysis, we need to establish what chain business is. The definition is unclear. Can we consider a businesses a chain when they have 2 estabishments? 3? We decided to establish this threshold at 5 in order to consider a business a brand. Then we compare the Pass/Fail inspection rates between the group of independent businesses and chains.

<iframe src="{{ site.baseurl }}/images/independent_vs_chain.html" style="width: 100%; height: 500px; frameborder='0'"></iframe>

There is a slight difference in the number of "Failed" inspections, where independent businesses failed 4% more than inspections than chain businesses. However, the there does not seem to be a big difference between the two types. Therefore, we can not conclude that it is significantly safer to go to a chain business than to an independent one. 

Hurrah! We do not have to care about the cleaning conditions of independent businesses when we go to Chicago. Independent businesses and big chains have very similar conditions.